## Overview
The `UDP ASCII Delimited Quickstart` template provides a starting point for connecting devices that communicate via
UDP using an ASCII delimited protocol.  The most common format would be comma separated values.

This template uses one of the available shared UDP ports that enables rapid testing.

## Import Parameters
- *UDP Port*: The UDP port to listen on for device communications.  You can use 9000-9010 if you define your endpoints.  
For auto-onboarding or specialized parsing, open a support ticket for a dedicated port.
- *ASCII Delimiter*: The character that separates fields in the payload.  Common values are comma (`,`), pipe (`|`), or semicolon (`;`).
- *ASCII Identifier Position*: The position of the unique identifier in the payload.  The first field is position 0.
- *Endpoint Key*: The first unique identifier for a device, subsequent devices can be added as endpoints.

## UDP Service
The UDP service holds the definition for how to extract the endpoint key from the incoming data.  It also controls
which port is used for the traffic.  There are several options for what port can be used:

- **Shared Port (9000-9010)**: The shared ports are available for all accounts, and do not require any new firewall rules
to be used.  The limitation is that you must create an endpoint with the unique key that identifies each device.  This
field must be in each packet that is transmitted.
- **Custom Port (assigned by support)**: You may request a dedicated port from support for your use case.  With a dedicated
port you have more control over parsing the content, and automatic onboarding is supported.  This means that when a device
communicates, if the unique identifier does not map to an existing endpoint, an endpoint will be created automatically.

## Triggers

### UDP - Decode delimited data
This trigger is used to decode the ASCII delimited payload, convert it to a javascript object, and publish a generic event
that can be further processed and forwarded to other triggers or enterprise applications.

## Next Steps
After importing this template, you will have one endpoint defined, and you can test sending traffic.

### Sending sample traffic
Using linux, you can use the tool `nc` to send traffic to the UDP port.  Ensure you substitute `<key>` with the unique 
key generated by the template.
```
echo "pub,<key>,23.5,49.2" | nc -u udp-us.tartabit.com 9000
```

## Additional Resources
- UDP Service Documentation: <https://docs.tartabit.com/en/Topics/UDP>
- Getting started with ASCII delimited payloads: <https://docs.tartabit.com/en/Topics/Trigger-ASCII-Parsing>