## Overview
The `UDP Raw Payload Quickstart` template provides a starting point for connecting devices that communicate via
UDP.  This template does no decoding and simply forwards the received payload without any special processing.

This template uses one of the available shared UDP ports that enables rapid testing.

If using a shared port, it is important to note that to use this template, you must create a binding to bind a source IP address or IP range (CIDR) to your
account so that the IoT Bridge knows how to route traffic to your account.

If using a dedicated port, the destination port is used for routing and no further configuration is required.

## Import Parameters
- *UDP Port*: The UDP port to listen on for device communications.  You can use 9000-9010 if you define your endpoints.  
For auto-onboarding or specialized parsing, open a support ticket for a dedicated port.

## UDP Service
The UDP service holds the definition for how to extract the endpoint key from the incoming data.  It also controls
which port is used for the traffic.  There are several options for what port can be used:

- **Shared Port (9000-9010)**: The shared ports are available for all accounts, and do not require any new firewall rules
to be used.  The limitation is that you must create an endpoint with the unique key that identifies each device.  This
field must be in each packet that is transmitted.
- **Custom Port (assigned by support)**: You may request a dedicated port from support for your use case.  With a dedicated
port you have more control over parsing the content, and automatic onboarding is supported.  This means that when a device
communicates, if the unique identifier does not map to an existing endpoint, an endpoint will be created automatically.

## Triggers

### UDP - Decode raw data
This trigger is used to decode the raw payload, convert it to a javascript object, and publish a generic event
that can be further processed and forwarded to other triggers or enterprise applications.

## Next Steps
After importing this template, you will have one endpoint defined, and you can test sending traffic.

If using a shared port, ensure you have a binding for the source IP address to properly route traffic.

### Sending sample traffic
Using linux, you can use the tool `nc` to send traffic to the UDP port.  Ensure you substitute `<key>` with the unique 
key generated by the template.
```
echo "pub,23.5,49.2" | nc -u udp-us.tartabit.com 9000
```

## Additional Resources
- UDP Service Documentation: <https://docs.tartabit.com/en/Topics/UDP>
- If your payload is structured, check out getting started with ASCII delimited payloads: <https://docs.tartabit.com/en/Topics/Trigger-ASCII-Parsing>